Whenever faced with an intractable problem, remember there is always a way
Don't give up.
Imagine as much as possible
It will help in meetings etc.
Maintain a daily journal
Without a journal, we don't learn from mistakes and repeat them.
Practice self discipline - keep doing the right things again and again.
Good things will not happen overnight - persevere.
Be hard on yourself, but be soft and forgiving towards others at the same time.
Maintain a pleasant and likeable personality.
No matter how hard it gets, no matter how bad it is, I am never going to quit.
11
Show courage and persistence in the face of adversity.
Stand up for what you think is right, no matter what.
Don't be afraid of the repercussions
Be respectful to others, at the same time.
Overcome your fears
Every time you fear something, remember it is a test that you have to clear.
The only thing that stands between you and success is fear.
In any difficult situation, always think whether what you are doing is right or wrong.
Before doing anything, think: Is it honest, is it beneficial for the project, team, your managers etc?
Are your actions congruent with your values, beliefs and goals
If so, you have nothing to fear.
Persevere and endure hardships, do not lose sight of your goals.
Your heights of success will depend on how long can you endure, without giving up.
Always prioritize your health over everything else
Without health you don't have anything.
Be careful of your diet
Exercise self discipline in this area.
Always prioritize family needs over work.
Always prioritize long term goals over short term goals.
Maintain absolute Integrity and highest standards for all the work that you do.
Remember - Mota Shareer, Mota Dimaag.
Create the most robust, distributable, fault tolerant architecture for CoMET.
Ensure that the quality of code written and design created under your guidance is the best.
re there any important emails where I should reply?
Is there a meeting with senior leadership today
prepare for it irrespective of whether you are presenting or not.
Are there any code reviews or wikis to comment on?
Did I go through the functional documents, and all the relevant emails?
Did I read about any architectural document today
Did I read about coding best practices, java etc?
Are there any architectural documents to be made?
Did I commit some code today
Is there anything important that I am working on?
Did I catch up with Krishna in the last two, three days?
Do I need to catch up with a PE?
Is there a topic on which I can provide a LnD?
Is there a topic on which I can write a wiki, send an email?
