
Be free of sinus and exercise induced asthma problems.
Be recognized as an expert on CoMET, ASIN score Service and IAD Systems.
Be recognized as the biggest expert on Catalog Health Metrics system.
Be recognized as an expert in Amazon technologies.
Be the biggest technology expert known within the team on coding, design, architecture.
Move to US within 1 - 1.5 years.
Be recognized as an expert by US leadership team.
Become a Principal Engineer or L7 Manager within the next 3 years.
Be the global star performer under Sukumar's org.
Be recognized as an expert in the overall catalog quality related projects.
Leave the written artifacts behind. 
Written Artifacts will surely be looked at during the promo process. 
Just finishing the work is not enough - you need to move the bar forward for the promo.
Life is made up of moments, once lost they never come back.
wasting time is like wasting life and compromising on goals.
Live my life in 30 minute compartments, and define clear goal for every compartment.
Diligently follow the To-Do List. Persevere even if not feeling well.
Have a sense of urgency around producing results. It enhances people's faith in you.
Whenever faced with an intractable problem, remember there is always a way. Don't give up.
Imagine as much as possible. It will help in meetings etc.
Maintain a daily journal. Without a journal, we don't learn from mistakes and repeat them.
Practice self discipline - keep doing the right things again and again.
Good things will not happen overnight - persevere.
Be hard on yourself, but be soft and forgiving towards others at the same time. 
Maintain a pleasant and likeable personality.
No matter how hard it gets, no matter how bad it is, I am never going to quit.
11. Show courage and persistence in the face of adversity. 
Stand up for what you think is right, no matter what. 
Don't be afraid of the repercussions. Be respectful to others, at the same time.
Overcome your fears. Every time you fear something, remember it is a test that you have to clear.
The only thing that stands between you and success is fear. 
In any difficult situation, always think whether what you are doing is right or wrong. 
Before doing anything, think: Is it honest, is it beneficial for the project, team, your managers etc? 
Are your actions congruent with your values, beliefs and goals. If so, you have nothing to fear.
Persevere and endure hardships, do not lose sight of your goals.
Your heights of success will depend on how long can you endure, without giving up. 
Always prioritize your health over everything else. Without health you don't have anything. 
Be careful of your diet. Exercise self discipline in this area.
Always prioritize family needs over work.
Always prioritize long term goals over short term goals.
Maintain absolute Integrity and highest standards for all the work that you do.
Remember - Mota Shareer, Mota Dimaag.
Create the most robust, distributable, fault tolerant architecture for CoMET.
Ensure that the quality of code written and design created under your guidance is the best.
re there any important emails where I should reply?
Is there a meeting with senior leadership today? prepare for it irrespective of whether you are presenting or not.
Are there any code reviews or wikis to comment on?
Did I go through the functional documents, and all the relevant emails?
Did I read about any architectural document today? Did I read about coding best practices, java etc?
Are there any architectural documents to be made?
Did I commit some code today? Is there anything important that I am working on?
Did I catch up with Krishna in the last two, three days?
Do I need to catch up with a PE?
Is there a topic on which I can provide a LnD?
Is there a topic on which I can write a wiki, send an email?

